---
title: "100 Days of Code Challenge Days 1-10"
layout: post
date: 2017-07-25 23:00
image: /assets/images/react.svg
headerImage: true
tag:
- 100DaysOfCodeChallenge
category: blog
author: terrymafura
description: 100 Days of Code Challenge Days 1-10
---

## Day 1 - July 25 2017
### [1] Project Manager application using React JS
- setup project, linked with Firebase, added Projects and Todo components, getting Todos from API
- Also started contributing to some awesome project *well, not really. haven't started yet, but I'm in. I will post more about it. yaaay*    

- Link to the project [Project Manager App](https://github.com/maffsojah/projectmanager)

## Day 2 - July 26 2017
### [2] Project Manager App, React
- today I decided to get back to the drawing board. I realised I had a lot to learn and since I have practised what I have learnt so far on a project, I decided to get back to reading.  
- On the *Project Manager* App I decided to start with some new layout because it was just plain old JSX without any styles  
- I got to learn about Component Validation using PropTypes, Authentication and building react for production.  
- *The Open Source Project*  - I learnt a very huge lesson today, I realised I have a long way to go and I havent really grasped as much as I would expect to. I met people who were writing code I had never seen before, concepts I had never heard of before.  
- I will be good at this :stuck_out_tongue_winking_eye:

## Day 3 - July 27 2017
### [3] Vanilla JS, React  
- today was a bit tricky. Besides trying to learn how I could contribute to an Open Source project, I was back at Vanilla JavaScript.  
- Most of the problems I am facing are merely caused by not fully grasping JavaScript (I intend to be a ninja though :stuck_out_tongue_winking_eye:)  
- I also learnt how to build react projects for production and how to deploy on now.sh, Github Pages and Apache server.  
- I was a bit tired today, didn't feel like doing any coding. As I was writing this post, I thought about my favorite quote and I guess I will be staying up for another 3 hours.
> Decide that you want it more than you are afraid of it.
> - Unknown


## Day 4 - July 28 2017
### [4] Vanilla JS   
- today was about getting up from the basics. I was reading about objects and arrays again.  
- this will make sense in the next couple of days  

## Day 5 - July 29 2017
### [5] Vanilla JS
- I finished up freeCodeCamp Basic Javascript.
- started on the basic algorithm scripting with JavaScript

## Day 6 - July 30 2017
### [6] freeCodeCamp  
- learnt about JSON APIs and Ajax
- started the intermediate Front End Development Projects  
- I don't really like Bootstrap so I have been learning materialize-css, it if a pretty cool framework.

## Day 7 - July 31 2017
### [7] React
-  since I decided to start refreshing my JS, I also started React again with React Fundamentals by [Tyler Mcginnis](https://twitter.com/tylermcginnis33)
- this was after I learnt about uploading my react sites on now.sh, Github Pages, Apache Server and why I can eject my create-react-app
- the learning process is a bit jumbled up, this is because I figured I couldn't finish courses if I got stuck on them for a long time.
- I do feel tired, been a busy day at work but I realise I have to get at least an hour to learn code, learn JavaScript, learn React.
- In the next few weeks I will get a lot busier at work and will be travelling too. My only hope is I don't get tired with this process, I don't lose hope in the process, I keep coding and coding until I am the ninja I wish to be.
- I plan to not stop, I plan to finish these 100 Days and continue for more and I will do just that.
- :stuck_out_tongue_winking_eye:
